the media wants you to believe that
everything is okay so they show you a
type of information that you're going to
be okay with that will pacify you but we
need to know the truth you came here for
the truth so let me unveil that for you
in today's video we are going to look at
a few things and what is happening as a
result you see you have inflation that's
been going on but what is the answer
what's the response I'm going to show
you what central banks around the world
have been doing more now than ever
before let's dig in we're going to see
the buffet indicator if you've never
heard of this before just think of this
like the whole stock market divided by
the GDP and that would give us a sense
of where we are not just in you know the
a number okay well the stock market is
at 10,000 great well in relation to the
GDP we can get a sense of where we're at
this tells us that we are near
historic highs the insanity of 2020 was
beyond it but we are still in this
region we've basically never been and
that is a worrying sign as always now we
don't have to say well it's not 1960s
anymore it's not the that's fine but we
have to understand where the extremes
lie and they want it to go much much
further you can see that one guy posting
a meme online could send billions of
dollars into a stock and create you know
this chaos essentially a pump and dump
perhaps well what is it about Warren
Buffett that's very different about a
lot of others out there is that he's
sitting on $200
billion of cash $200 billion in cash
just waiting to be deployed saying what
he has said many times before and that
is
uh we're looking we're looking but we
can't find anything that's really really
good now he did mention at his uh most
recent conference that he was looking at
a Canadian investment but the point is
he's sitting on $200 billion of cash
even if he goes and drops you know 5
billion 10 billion that's like a massive
investment for most but compared to what
he's sitting on not too much because
he's waiting for there to be blood in
the streets most people don't have that
patience in the meantime he's earning a
few percent because it's not cash it's
cash equivalents so he'll hold short
dated treasuries for instance and then
you can make the money off of that and
$200 billion of that is nice income for
Brookshire Hathaway but he would rather
be invested in a company just can't find
the best place to put it and I wanted to
show you something because we use these
blanket terms of you know the stock
market is at the this or the economy is
at this well let's look at the stock
market you could see uh growth of $1,000
by Equity Market from 2019 up until now
and you'll see the big big difference
all right so in the example of the S&P
500 that $1,000 would be 1,700 today and
then you compare that to the Hong sang
which is you know at at 6 100 so it
depends on where you are where you're at
but that doesn't mean future growth
right just because well over the last
little while this has been the best
performing one therefore it's going to
perform better we have to understand
that always it's where you are buying in
remember when you are buying into gold
when you are buying into crypto when
you're buying into the stock market real
estate or whatever you got to understand
the history yes and there's always those
patterns you could say look there's
never been a pattern before of a 10year
period being down and and this such
asset so on and so forth that's great
but what is the future prospects and how
did you come to that conclusion how
could you come to the conclusion of
future prospects well I looked at this
or I you know this and that you have to
understand it okay very very important
stuff how did you come to that
conclusion and when we look at what the
central banks are doing it
is it's worth noting let's say that
world's oldest Central Bank keeps
sounding the alarm on the fragility of a
cashless
economy and what they say here is
talking about Sweden and what they have
done and basically everybody is just tap
tap tap and that's great but it does put
the whole system at risk that's kind of
the worry
here what I think about Sweden is that
they have gone all the way out basically
there's I think
8% is actually cash so they just keep
depleting that the the issue here is not
the people you might say I'm not going
to give up my cash the stores aren't
going to accept it because the stores
because of crime issues because of the
difficulty in that processing fees uh
hopefully will get cheaper and cheaper
so these things will basically make that
cash unable to be used like oh it's you
can it's legal tender you could still
have it you could bring it to the bank
you could deposit it you could take it
out of the bank sure but nowhere nowhere
can you actually use that and more and
more and more transactions are going
online as well so you see what's
happening we are going into a cashless
Society yeah there probably will still
be cash 20 years from now but where can
you use it that's what I'm saying now
you could do an exchange between two
people that's fine I think that will be
around for while but ultimately you know
the way it's going we're going into a
cash Society all these transactions are
tracked uh you know the way this
works but when we talk about the the
next level here what is sort of the
antidote well many people see gold as
the complete opposite end of all of this
stuff and you could see China is buying
gold like there's no tomorrow Bank of
Korea buys gold as dollar and Euro lose
clout inside the 21st century Gold Rush
people are buying gold like they never
have before okay and by the way I
remember going to the in the lineup when
it was racing higher I think that was
2011 2012 being in the lineup and
suddenly thinking to myself uhoh
everybody's catching on to Gold CU
there's a lineup to buy gold this was
that was weird to me okay I was like
uhoh people are catching on this is a
bad sign and of course um you know when
most people get in it's usually a good
sign that bull markets are over so we'll
we'll see what happens though because
that's the physical not the paper so
understand the difference there central
banks turned into net gold buyers after
the global financial crisis and their
purchases have tripled since mid
2022 okay so it it hasn't slowed down at
all when we talk about what the central
banks are doing now are we talking about
the Federal Reserve are we talking about
the Bank of Canada no no not at all not
at all but a lot of others and I can
show you that you can uh see this First
Central Bank gold theand tripled since
mid 2022 and uh that's the uh the dark
area uh towards the bottom there okay so
you could see the difference over uh you
know just over a decade period and what
has
happened in that looking at most Central
Bank gold buying is now unre reported
this is Goldman Socks by the way most of
their buying is unreported six Emerging
Market central banks drive all of the
reported net monetary gold purchases
since
2022 all right and so who do you have on
here you got China you got Poland turkey
Singapore India Qatar Russia and
others what this means to me first of
all I don't know they're saying it's
unreported well how are you get in that
data exactly is a kind of like a wink
wink nudge nudge type of deal uh but
either way we've been told you know
China has more than what they say they
do this all speculation the point is it
is in demand it's in demand all right
and you could see this as well why
number one reason inflation hedge and
then we have performance during times of
Crisis no default risk portfolio
diversifier highly liquid asset and
geopolitical
diversifier and that's important right
because there is a big concern there's a
lot of concern for these countries which
can't do business in US dollar don't
want to do as much business in US dollar
they want the diversity they can hold on
to Gold that's what they're doing now
there could come a time when they sell a
bit of that there's there's no question
about it but right now they're just
saying I'm not going to go in and buy so
much gold that's what China's been doing
China has been since 2013 on average if
you look at the chart on average selling
selling selling they had 1.3
approximately I think this was December
2013 the January
2014 uh they were had like $ 1.3
trillion doll worth of US debt and now
it's like half of that so they've been
slowly but surely but in that meantime
they've been buying gold and so you
could you you see you know what's going
on here so there's a lot happening the
global monetary system is sh shifting
it's not going to happen overnight it's
not going to even happen next year but
we do see the change you got to be
prepared for that and you got to make
the right choices okay this is very
important if your all your eggs are on
one basket it is a very big issue so
that's this video today if you want to
know more about all of this in depth I
cover it for over two hours every Friday
the finance Friday live I want to give a
shout out to finance Friday live people
I'll see you then take care here